During the past five years, over 1.3 million faithful ones have symbolized their dedication
to Jehovah by water baptism.
That's an average of over 700 each day, and among those courageously taking their stand
for true worship are thousands of children, teenagers, and young adults.
Young brothers and sisters, we know it is not always easy to serve Jehovah and live
up to your dedication.
Like older ones, you need to be encouraged and strengthened spiritually.
With that in mind, our theme this month is young ones, become an example to the faithful
ones.
It is based on the inspiring true life story of a young Christian named Timothy.
Before we discuss Timothy's example, did you know that the Bible specifically foretold
that many young people would take sides with Jehovah in our time?
Let's look at this at Psalm 1103.
And as we read it together, note how young ones are having a share in fulfilling this prophecy.
Notice the first part of verse 3, David saying,
your people will offer themselves willingly on the day of your military force.
According to this prophecy, Jesus, the Messianic King, would have a large army of willing
supporters.
Since 1914, millions have carefully investigated the facts and chosen to side with Jehovah
God and Jesus Christ.
But where do young ones come into this picture?
The rest of the verse continues.
In splendid holiness, from the womb of the dawn, you have your company of young men
just like do drops.
Here the prophecy refers to a company or group of young ones.
They also would study the evidence and support God's kingdom.
How many young people did Jehovah foresee supporting true worship?
We get an idea by the comparison made to do drops.
Have you ever gone outside early in the morning and noticed a light sparkling coating of
water on the ground?
That may have been do.
Jehovah designed our atmosphere so that under certain conditions, when the temperature
cools during the night, a blanket of moisture forms on the ground.
That coating is made up of a multitude of little drops.
Young ones, what does do have to do with you?
In the Bible, do is connected with blessing and abundance.
Do drops are also refreshing, life-sustaining and numerous.
Now remember in Psalm 1103, Jehovah was looking ahead to our time and what did he see?
The September 15, 2002 watched our on page 8 explained it this way.
Do drops like refreshing do drops, many young men and women cheerfully serve God and assist
their fellow worshipers.
Today there are so many mature, bright, happy young ones in the Christian congregation
that they are like countless do drops that sparkle in the morning sun.
You faithful children, teenagers and young adults who have dedicated your life to Jehovah
or who are working toward that goal are living proof that Jehovah's confidence in young
people was never misplaced.
He cherishes you very much and so do we.
Of course knowing that Jehovah has confidence in us can be very encouraging.
But what if doubts or negative thoughts tend to bring us down?
On occasion, a young witness might wonder, does anyone other than Jehovah notice me?
Does my example really matter to others?
To address these questions, let's now consider Timothy's example.
Open your Bible please to our theme text at 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 12.
When you find it, you might want to bookmark the verse because we want to first understand
the setting.
How old was Timothy at this time?
Often when thinking of Timothy, I picture a teenager or a young man in his early 20s.
And when he first started traveling with Paul, he was about that age.
But several years passed before Paul wrote letters to Timothy.
So by the time first Timothy was written, Timothy was likely in his early 30s.
Now what do you think was Timothy young or old?
Some of you younger ones may be thinking to yourselves, if he was over 30, then he was
old.
But remember, a much older man like Paul would say that Timothy was quite young.
In fact, notice the expression he uses when writing to Timothy.
First Timothy, chapter 4 and verse 12, Paul says,
Never let anyone look down on your youth.
Instead, become an example to the faithful ones.
In speaking, in conduct, in love, in faith, in chasteness.
Paul called Timothy a youth and urged him to be a good example.
While Timothy may have been in his early 30s at this time, remember that he was taught
about Jehovah from the time he was a baby and he did well in the truth as a young person.
In fact, when he was still a teenager or in his early 20s, the elders recommended him
to serve as a missionary with Paul.
So in effect, Paul here is urging Timothy to continue to be a good example for others.
What else do we know about Timothy?
He was not proud or haughty.
He likely did not view himself as some amazing example.
I'm sure he never dreamed that one day Christians all over the world would study his life in
detail so as to imitate his faith.
Timothy was modest and this, despite his privileges, Paul's words may indicate that Timothy
was somewhat shy.
Like many of us, he may have battled with feelings of self-doubt on occasion.
Based on this information, let's do something interesting now.
Let's use our imagination to visualize Timothy, an elder in his early 30s, coming to give
a scriptural talk in the congregation.
Got the picture?
In your mind, please look at Timothy and then look at the audience.
Who do we see?
Many in attendance are old enough to be Timothy's parents or grandparents.
How do you think Timothy felt?
Super confident?
Are you visualizing him proudly walking into the meeting place saying, I sure wish my
friends back in Listera could see me now look at the crowds that come to hear me speak?
No, that's not the Timothy we know.
It's much more likely that Timothy, like most of us, rehearsed his presentation over and
over again.
He probably prayed constantly and he probably still got nervous like all of us.
And remember, Timothy did not have the benefit of theocratic schools like we do today.
In summary, what can we say about Timothy?
Like so many of you, he was an example of faith and obedience.
He was exceptional in displaying Christian qualities such as modesty and humility.
But Timothy was a person with normal human feelings like all of us.
Though he had a rich, happy life in Jehovah's service, life in the old world brought
real tests and challenges.
Timothy also dealt with frequent cases of sickness and he was imprisoned for a time.
Some of you in various countries can relate to those bitter experiences.
But Timothy endured.
Was he some super Christian with super powers?
No.
But he did prove to be a super example.
How does all of this help you?
A few of you may be thinking, I wish someone would tell my parents or my elders not to look
down on me.
They still treat me like a little kid.
If that's the case, we feel for you.
No progressive young one wants to be treated as if he were a child.
But let's look again at 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 12.
Is the Apostle Paul speaking to the congregation, to parents or to the elders?
Never let anyone look down on your youth.
Instead, become an example to the faithful ones in speaking, in conduct, in love, in faith,
in chasteness.
It's clear, isn't it?
Paul said your youth.
He was speaking only to Timothy.
Young ones, by extension, what is Jehovah saying to each of you?
It's this.
To gain and maintain the respect of faithful ones, you have to work at proving yourself as
a Christian.
The key is not wanting or hoping that others will respect you.
Rather, it's earning such respect by setting a good example in all areas of life.
If you do that, then no one will have any legitimate reason to look down on your youth.
Doesn't it make sense that we gain respect by earning it?
We are confident that you young ones are trying hard to live by Christian principles at
school and in the neighborhood.
And in verse 12, did you notice who Timothy was to be an example to?
To the faithful ones.
Are you an example to Christians, both younger and older, in your congregation and in your
circuit?
If you work on Kingdom Hall construction projects or a Bethel, are you an example to your
fellow workers?
Well, what are some specific ways?
You can become an example to all of these faithful ones.
In our theme text, Timothy was first directed to become an example in speaking.
On this topic, I'll never forget an illustration used in the young people ask article from
the January 2012 awake.
Equated a young man, James, who said, once you squeeze toothpaste out, you can't put
it back in the tube.
The same is true with our words.
Once we say something hurtful, we can't take it back.
God's word agrees with James.
Note what it says at Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 29.
It tells us, let a rotten word not come out of your mouth, but only what is good for building
up as the need may be to impart what is beneficial to the hearer.
For some years now, those getting baptized have been encouraged to complete a study of
the book, keep yourselves in God's love.
Chapter 12 is entitled, Speak what is good for building up.
On page 140, there's a box with five questions that can help us evaluate our speech.
For example, when was the last time I offered someone specific commendation?
Do I express my respect for others by saying, please, and thank you.
In conversation, do I speak mainly about myself or am I also interested in the thoughts and
feelings of others?
Young ones, over the next few days, why not review that box on page 140?
Look up the scriptures and think about what Jehovah is saying.
Then apply what you learn to your speech.
Doing this will draw you closer to Jehovah and help you to become an even better example
to the faithful ones.
The second area mentioned in our theme text is becoming an example in conduct.
Of course, upbuilding speech would be empty or hypocritical if our conduct was questionable.
Think again about Timothy.
It wasn't enough for him to give comments and talks at the meetings or preach from
door to door.
Later, in the same letter, Paul reminded Timothy that he needed to treat older men and
women as fathers and mothers.
Younger men and women were to be treated as brothers and sisters.
Second Peter, chapter 3 and verse 11, provides a similar urge and reminder about our conduct.
Let's read that together.
Again, that's second Peter, chapter 3 and verse 11.
There it tells us, since all these things are to be dissolved in this way, consider
what sort of people you ought to be in holy acts of conduct.
Let's think about that.
For a person's conduct to be holy from Jehovah's perspective, he or she must be morally
clean.
While physical cleanness is on the outside, moral cleanness is on the inside in our thoughts
and desires.
Is being morally clean really important?
Think about it this way.
When eating a meal, would you be content to eat from a bowl that had been washed only
on the outside?
Of course not.
We want to eat from clean dishes, dishes that are thoroughly clean inside and out.
So when we wash dishes, we wash the outside and the inside.
Similarly, Jehovah expects his servants to be clean through and through.
And because Jehovah, the perfect reader of hearts will soon dissolve, yes, eliminate
this dirty system of things, it's urgent that we do so.
This means that we have to work very hard so that nothing unclean enters our mind.
That means firmly rejecting so-called fun and exciting entertainment, which features
sex, violence or spiritism.
At 1 Corinthians 14 and verse 20, the Bible tells us that we should become like young
children as to badness.
No matter our age, we don't need and we don't want any experience with the wickedness
of this world.
Rather, we keep the inside of the dish, our mind and heart clean at all times.
And when we do so, our exemplary conduct pleases Jehovah and its strengthens our faithful brothers
and sisters.
Really, it's the only way to respect ourselves and to gain the respect of others.
Our theme text at 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 12 goes on to mention other areas where
we can make steady progress in becoming an example, such as in love, in faith and in
chasteness.
During your personal study, that is, your personal time with your best friend Jehovah,
why not examine these areas in more detail?
The treasures you gain from such a study project can last a lifetime and everlasting lifetime.
So what have we learned?
In fulfillment of Bible prophecy, a large company of young people from around the world
are taking a stand with Jehovah and Jesus.
That includes all of you.
Like do drops, you're not only abundant in number, but you sparkle in our congregations.
Your presence is very refreshing.
So please, don't look down on your youth.
Rather, rejoice in your youth.
Yes, become an example to the faithful ones.